nrrd: Nearly Raw Raster Data

nrrd is a software library which was written to assist scientific
visualization and imaging research which involves representing and
manipulating raster data.  Originally written by Gordon Kindlmann as a
tool in his own research, its usage has grown to other members in the
SCI group, and it is now the basis of some optional modules in BioPSE.

Stark simplicity is the main principle of nrrd. The goal of nrrd is
not to introduce any layers of abstraction between the programmer and
the numerical data resident in the computer's memory.  Rather, the
point is to create the thinnest and most simplistic possible interface
to raster data.  For instance, it assumes that the programmer is
comfortable with thinking about arrays as being simultaneously
multi-dimensional in logical structure while strictly uni-dimensional
in memory layout.  This comes fairly easily to people who have spent
significant time manipulating and processing data in "raw" form.
Essentially, nrrd is a toolbox for making the manipulation of raw data
more convenient for those programmers who are comfortable thinking at
that low level of representation, or for those software components
that need to operate at that level.  As such, it does not rely on or
offer any of the operational mechanisms or syntactic pleasantries of
C++; nrrd is implemented in C alone.

nrrd is able to represent raster data of any dimension and any type
(fixed point or floating point), from unsigned char up to long long
double, or a user-defined type described at run-time.  The basic unit
of the nrrd library is the Nrrd struct, which is little more than a
thin wrapper around a "void *" pointing to the underlying raw array in
memory.  The wrapper holds information such as the type, dimension,
axis lengths, and comments.

The closest analog in Unix software is the "xv" tool for image viewing
and manipulation, which makes no claims to Photoshop-level power and
grace, but which is still an indespensible tool for all daily mundane
operations on images. nrrd functionality includes:
cropping + padding
slicing + stitching
blurring, filtering, or other resampling
quantizing floating point data to fixed point
casting between data types
axis permutation
histogramming, histogram image generation
axis-histogramming
projection
PGM and PPM images

Given the class of operations that nrrd offers, an important role that
nrrd can play in the context of a larger software system is that of a
data pre-processing engine, in which both the input and output is raw
raster data (as opposed to higher-level processing such as
segmentation or visualization).  ... ? ... For instance, bane
in a weekend thanks to histogram madness.

In addition to this functionality, nrrd also supports a simple file
format: human-readable and editable ASCII header on top of raw (or
ASCII) data.  To make it easier to extract data from other file
formats, the header can be a seperate file, recording how and where
tbe data can be found in some other file, raw or otherwise.

nrrd is one library out of a larger set of libraries being developed
by Gordon Kindlmann, called "teem".  teem includes a set of tools, the
Utah Nrrd Utilities (unrrdu), based on the nrrd library and providing
much of its functionality to a simple command-line interface.  Also
in teem is bane...

